---
title: "Leetcode problem 7 - Ransom Note"
header:
  image: /assets/leetcode.png
categories:
  - Leetcode
tags:
  - Leetcode
---

Given two strings ransomNote and magazine, return true if ransomNote can be constructed by using the letters from magazine and false otherwise.

Each letter in magazine can only be used once in ransomNote.

Example 1:

Input: ransomNote = "a", magazine = "b"
Output: false
Example 2:

Input: ransomNote = "aa", magazine = "ab"
Output: false
Example 3:

Input: ransomNote = "aa", magazine = "aab"
Output: true

```js
/**
 * @param {string} ransomNote
 * @param {string} magazine
 * @return {boolean}
 */
var canConstruct = function (ransomNote, magazine) {
  let ransom = "";
  for (let i = 0; i < ransomNote.length; i++) {
    if (magazine.charAt(i) !== ransomNote.charAt(i)) {
      return false;
    } else {
      console.log(ransom);
      ransom += ransomNote.charAt(i);
    }
  }

  if (ransom === ransomNote) {
    return true;
  }
};
```

I couldn't solve this problem, I got an error when I submit my code. That's because I compare each `ransomNote`'s character from first letter. The code I will attach below this line would use three methods in array prototype.

```js
var canConstruct = function (ransomNote, magazine) {
  const arr = magazine.split("");
  for (let i = 0; i < ransomNote.length; i++) {
    if (arr.indexOf(ransomNote[i]) === -1) {
      return false;
    } else {
      arr.splice(arr.indexOf(ransomNote[i]), 1);
    }
  }
  return true;
};
```

The code starts by converting the `magazine` string into an array called `arr` using the `split` method. A for loop is used to iterate through each character of the `ransomNote` string. Inside the loop, the code checks if the current character of the ransomNote is present in the `arr` array using the `indexOf` method. If the character is not found (indexOf returns -1), it means the character is missing in the `magazine`, and the function immediately returns **false**.

If the character is found in the `arr` array, the code uses `splice` to remove the character from the array. This simulates taking that character from the `magazine` and ensures that each character can only be used once.

After iterating through all characters of the `ransomNote` string, if no missing characters were found, the function returns **true**, indicating that the `ransom note` can be constructed.

I could learn array methods `splice`, `indexOf` and `split` from the above code written by others.

`splice` method allows me to modify an array by adding or removing elements at a specified position.

`indexOf` method allows me to find the index of a specified element within an array.

`split` method allows me to split a string into an array of substrings based on a specified delimiter
