---
title: "Leetcode problem 22 - Build Array from Permutation"
header:
  image: /assets/leetcode.png
categories:
  - Leetcode
tags:
  - Leetcode
---

Given a zero-based permutation nums (0-indexed), build an array ans of the same length where ans[i] = nums[nums[i]] for each 0 <= i < nums.length and return it.

A zero-based permutation nums is an array of distinct integers from 0 to nums.length - 1 (inclusive).

Example 1:

Input: nums = [0,2,1,5,3,4]
Output: [0,1,2,4,5,3]
Explanation: The array ans is built as follows:
ans = [nums[nums[0]], nums[nums[1]], nums[nums[2]], nums[nums[3]], nums[nums[4]], nums[nums[5]]]
= [nums[0], nums[2], nums[1], nums[5], nums[3], nums[4]]
= [0,1,2,4,5,3]
Example 2:

Input: nums = [5,0,1,2,3,4]
Output: [4,5,0,1,2,3]
Explanation: The array ans is built as follows:
ans = [nums[nums[0]], nums[nums[1]], nums[nums[2]], nums[nums[3]], nums[nums[4]], nums[nums[5]]]
= [nums[5], nums[0], nums[1], nums[2], nums[3], nums[4]]
= [4,5,0,1,2,3]

```js
/**
 * @param {number[]} nums
 * @return {number[]}
 */
var buildArray = function (nums) {
  let ans = [];
  for (let i = 0; i < nums.length; i++) {
    ans.push(nums[nums[i]]);
  }
  return ans;
};
```

The function `buildArray` takes an array `nums` as its parameter.

It initializes an empty array `ans`, which will store the result of the transformation.

The function uses a `for` loop to iterate through each element of the `nums` array.

Inside the loop, it applies a specific transformation to each element. It takes the value of the element at index `i` (i.e., `nums[i]`) and uses it as an index to access another element in the nums array (i.e., `nums[nums[i]]`).

The element at index `nums[i]` is then pushed into the `ans` array using the ans.push() method.

After iterating through all elements of the `nums` array, the function returns the resulting array `ans`, which contains the transformed elements.
