---
title: "Leetcode problem 56 - Design an Ordered Stream"
header:
  image: /assets/leetcode.png
categories:
  - Leetcode
tags:
  - Leetcode
---

There is a stream of n (idKey, value) pairs arriving in an arbitrary order, where idKey is an integer between 1 and n and value is a string. No two pairs have the same id.

Design a stream that returns the values in increasing order of their IDs by returning a chunk (list) of values after each insertion. The concatenation of all the chunks should result in a list of the sorted values.

Implement the OrderedStream class:

OrderedStream(int n) Constructs the stream to take n values.
String[] insert(int idKey, String value) Inserts the pair (idKey, value) into the stream, then returns the largest possible chunk of currently inserted values that appear next in the order.

```js
/**
 * @param {number} n
 */
var OrderedStream = function (n) {
  // Get the 'n' to set array with 'n' length.
  this.array = new Array(n);
  // Initialize the pointer to indicate current position in the array.
  this.pointer = 0;
};

/**
 * @param {number} idKey
 * @param {string} value
 * @return {string[]}
 */
OrderedStream.prototype.insert = function (idKey, value) {
  // Assign value to index 'idKey' of the array.
  this.array[idKey - 1] = value;
  // Initialize the array to return result value.
  let result = [];

  // Loop through all element at the index of 'pointer'
  while (this.array[this.pointer]) {
    // Push the element at the index of 'pointer' in the array
    result.push(this.array[this.pointer]);
    // Increment the pointer
    this.pointer++;
  }
  // return result
  return result;
};

/**
 * Your OrderedStream object will be instantiated and called as such:
 * var obj = new OrderedStream(n)
 * var param_1 = obj.insert(idKey,value)
 */
```

In the constructor function, `n` is expected as a parameter, and an empty array is created with a length of `n`. The `this.array` is used to store values, and `this.pointer` is initialized to 0.

The `insert` method is used to insert a value along with its key. `idKey` is the key for the value, and `value` is the data to be inserted.

The `idKey` is assumed to be a 1-based index, so `idKey - 1` is used to map it to the 0-based index in the array.

The `value` is stored in the array at the corresponding index.

The code then enters a loop where it checks if the value at the current pointer position (`this.array[this.pointer]`) is not null or undefined. If there is a value at the current position, it is pushed into the `result` array, and the pointer is incremented.

The loop continues until an empty slot is encountered in the array, and then it returns the `result` array, which contains all the values in sequential order starting from the current pointer position.
