---
title: "Leetcode problem 60 - Unique Morse Code Words"
header:
  image: /assets/leetcode.png
categories:
  - Leetcode
tags:
  - Leetcode
---

International Morse Code defines a standard encoding where each letter is mapped to a series of dots and dashes, as follows:

'a' maps to ".-",
'b' maps to "-...",
'c' maps to "-.-.", and so on.
For convenience, the full table for the 26 letters of the English alphabet is given below:

[".-","-...","-.-.","-..",".","..-.","--.","....","..",".---","-.-",".-..","--","-.","---",".--.","--.-",".-.","...","-","..-","...-",".--","-..-","-.--","--.."]
Given an array of strings words where each word can be written as a concatenation of the Morse code of each letter.

For example, "cab" can be written as "-.-..--...", which is the concatenation of "-.-.", ".-", and "-...". We will call such a concatenation the transformation of a word.
Return the number of different transformations among all words we have.

Example 1:

Input: words = ["gin","zen","gig","msg"]
Output: 2
Explanation: The transformation of each word is:
"gin" -> "--...-."
"zen" -> "--...-."
"gig" -> "--...--."
"msg" -> "--...--."
There are 2 different transformations: "--...-." and "--...--.".
Example 2:

Input: words = ["a"]
Output: 1

```js
/**
 * @param {string[]} words
 * @return {number}
 */
var uniqueMorseRepresentations = function (words) {
  const morse = [
    ".-",
    "-...",
    "-.-.",
    "-..",
    ".",
    "..-.",
    "--.",
    "....",
    "..",
    ".---",
    "-.-",
    ".-..",
    "--",
    "-.",
    "---",
    ".--.",
    "--.-",
    ".-.",
    "...",
    "-",
    "..-",
    "...-",
    ".--",
    "-..-",
    "-.--",
    "--..",
  ];
  let map = new Map();
  let ascii = "a".charCodeAt(0);
  morse.forEach((m) => map.set(ascii++, m));

  let set = new Set();
  for (const word of words) {
    let result = "";
    for (const w of word) {
      let morseValue = map.get(w.charCodeAt(0));
      result += morseValue;
    }
    set.add(result);
  }
  return set.size;
};
```

An array named `morse` is defined, where each element is a string representing the Morse code representation of a letter from 'a' to 'z'. This array is used to map characters to their Morse code equivalents.

A `Map` named `map` is created to map the ASCII values of lowercase letters ('a' to 'z') to their corresponding Morse code representations. It initializes by iterating through the `morse` array and mapping each ASCII value to the corresponding Morse code string.

A `Set` named `set` is created to store unique Morse code representations of the words.

The code then iterates through each word in the `words` array using a `for...of` loop.

Inside the loop, it initializes an empty string `result` to build the Morse code representation of the current word.

It iterates through each character (w) in the word using another for...of loop. For each character, it looks up its Morse code representation from the map using `map.get(w.charCodeAt(0))` and appends it to the `result`.

After forming the Morse code representation for the current word, it is added to the `set` to keep track of unique representations.

Finally, the function returns the size of the `set`, which represents the count of unique Morse code representations.

The overall time complexity is O(n _ m), where "n" is the number of `words`, and "m" is the average length of a word in the words array. If "m" is relatively small compared to "n," the time complexity can be approximated as O(n), but in a worst-case scenario where "m" is comparable to "n," it could be O(n _ m).
