---
title: "Leetcode problem 19 - Best Time to Buy and Sell Stock"
header:
  image: /assets/leetcode.png
categories:
  - Leetcode
tags:
  - Leetcode
---

You are given an array prices where prices[i] is the price of a given stock on the ith day.

You want to maximize your profit by choosing a single day to buy one stock and choosing a different day in the future to sell that stock.

Return the maximum profit you can achieve from this transaction. If you cannot achieve any profit, return 0.

Example 1:

Input: prices = [7,1,5,3,6,4]
Output: 5
Explanation: Buy on day 2 (price = 1) and sell on day 5 (price = 6), profit = 6-1 = 5.
Note that buying on day 2 and selling on day 1 is not allowed because you must buy before you sell.
Example 2:

Input: prices = [7,6,4,3,1]
Output: 0
Explanation: In this case, no transactions are done and the max profit = 0.

```js
/**
 * @param {number[]} prices
 * @return {number}
 */
var maxProfit = function (prices) {
  // Initialize the profit to 0
  let profit = 0;
  // Initialize the minimum price to the first element of the prices array
  let min = prices[0];

  // Loop through the prices array starting from the second element
  for (let i = 1; i < prices.length; ++i) {
    // If the current price is less than the minimum price so far
    if (min > prices[i]) {
      // Update the minimum price
      min = prices[i];
      // If the difference between the current price and the minimum price is greater than the current profit
    } else if (prices[i] - min > profit) {
      // Update the profit
      profit = prices[i] - min;
    }
  }
  // Return the maximum profit
  return profit;
};
```

Inside the loop, it checks if the current element `prices[i]` is less than the current `min`. If it is, then update the `min` to the current `prices[i]`, as we have found a new minimum price.

If the current `prices[i]` is not less than `min`, it means that there is a possibility of making a profit. So, it calculates the potential profit by subtracting the `min` from the current `prices[i]` (i.e., `prices[i] - min`).

If the potential `profit` is greater than the current `profit`, update the profit to the potential profit. This step ensures that `profit` always holds the maximum profit achieved so far.

The loop continues iterating through the prices array, updating min and `profit` accordingly.

After the loop finishes, the function returns the value of `profit`, which holds the maximum profit that can be achieved by buying and selling the stock.

The time complexity of this algorithm is O(n), where n is the length of the prices array. The algorithm iterates through the prices array once, so the time complexity is linear with respect to the size of the input.
