---
title: "Leetcode problem 53 - Count Items Matching a Rule"
header:
  image: /assets/leetcode.png
categories:
  - Leetcode
tags:
  - Leetcode
---

You are given an array items, where each items[i] = [typei, colori, namei] describes the type, color, and name of the ith item. You are also given a rule represented by two strings, ruleKey and ruleValue.

The ith item is said to match the rule if one of the following is true:

ruleKey == "type" and ruleValue == typei.
ruleKey == "color" and ruleValue == colori.
ruleKey == "name" and ruleValue == namei.
Return the number of items that match the given rule.

Example 1:

Input: items = [["phone","blue","pixel"],["computer","silver","lenovo"],["phone","gold","iphone"]], ruleKey = "color", ruleValue = "silver"
Output: 1
Explanation: There is only one item matching the given rule, which is ["computer","silver","lenovo"].
Example 2:

Input: items = [["phone","blue","pixel"],["computer","silver","phone"],["phone","gold","iphone"]], ruleKey = "type", ruleValue = "phone"
Output: 2
Explanation: There are only two items matching the given rule, which are ["phone","blue","pixel"] and ["phone","gold","iphone"]. Note that the item ["computer","silver","phone"] does not match.

Constraints:

1 <= items.length <= 104
1 <= typei.length, colori.length, namei.length, ruleValue.length <= 10
ruleKey is equal to either "type", "color", or "name".
All strings consist only of lowercase letters.

```js
/**
 * @param {string[][]} items
 * @param {string} ruleKey
 * @param {string} ruleValue
 * @return {number}
 */
var countMatches = function (items, ruleKey, ruleValue) {
  let key = 0,
    count = 0;
  if (ruleKey == "type") {
    key = 0;
  } else if (ruleKey == "color") {
    key = 1;
  } else if (ruleKey == "name") {
    key = 2;
  }
  for (let i = 0; i < items.length; i++) {
    if (items[i][key] == ruleValue) {
      count++;
    }
  }
  return count;
};
```

Count Items Matching a Rule

I have two-dimensional array named `items` that describes the type, color, and name of each `ith` item, Additionally, I have two parameters: `ruleKey`, which indicates whether I'm looking for a specific type, color, or name, and `ruleValue`, which is the value I'm searching for. The goal is to count how many items in the array match the specified `ruleKey` and `ruleValue`.

The first step is to determine which "ruleKey" is provided in the input value. This is crucial because it determines which aspect of the items I should compare. In the first example, input value is `[["phone","blue","pixel"],["computer","silver","lenovo"],["phone","gold","iphone"]], ruleKey = "color", ruleValue = "silver"`. I need to take a look at what ruleKey is, so it's `color` right now. The color section is in second section in each item. Then, I can compare only second section if ruleValue and second section in each item are matched or not.

So, I used conditional statement which is if statement to find where I should compare in interation. In each item, first section is type, second section is color, and last section is name, so the `key` variable is assigned what rulekey is.

After getting a key value, I used for loop to iterate all items in the items array to find how many numbers are matched with ruleValue. If a specific section and ruleValue are matched `count` variable will be incremented.

Lastly, return `count` will be returned.

All itmes were iterated by for loop, so it has O(n) for time complexity.
