---
title: "Leetcode problem 43 - Jump Game"
header:
  image: /assets/leetcode.png
categories:
  - Leetcode
tags:
  - Leetcode
---

You are given an integer array nums. You are initially positioned at the array's first index, and each element in the array represents your maximum jump length at that position.

Return true if you can reach the last index, or false otherwise.

Example 1:

Input: nums = [2,3,1,1,4]
Output: true
Explanation: Jump 1 step from index 0 to 1, then 3 steps to the last index.
Example 2:

Input: nums = [3,2,1,0,4]
Output: false
Explanation: You will always arrive at index 3 no matter what. Its maximum jump length is 0, which makes it impossible to reach the last index.

```js
/**
 * @param {number[]} nums
 * @return {boolean}
 */
var canJump = function (nums) {
  let maxNum = 0;

  for (let i = 0; i < nums.length; i++) {
    if (i > maxNum) {
      return false;
    }
    maxNum = Math.max(maxNum, i + nums[i]);
  }

  return true;
};
```

The function `canJump` takes an array `nums` as input and returns a boolean (`true` if you can reach the last index, and `false` otherwise).

A variable `maxNum` is initialized to keep track of the maximum reachable position.

The code then enters a loop that iterates through the array using the index `i`.

Inside the loop, there's a check to see if the current index `i` is beyond the maximum reachable position (`i > maxNum`). If it is, this means you can't proceed further, so the function returns `false`.

If the current index `i` is within or before the maximum reachable position, it updates the `maxNum` to the maximum value between the current `maxNum` and the sum of the current index `i` and the jump length at that position (`i + nums[i]`).

After the loop completes, if you've successfully looped through the entire array without hitting a position that is beyond the maximum reachable position, it means you can reach the last index, so the function returns `true`.
