---
title: "Leetcode problem 51 -  Split a String in Balanced Strings"
header:
  image: /assets/leetcode.png
categories:
  - Leetcode
tags:
  - Leetcode
---

Balanced strings are those that have an equal quantity of 'L' and 'R' characters.

Given a balanced string s, split it into some number of substrings such that:

Each substring is balanced.
Return the maximum number of balanced strings you can obtain.

 

Example 1:

Input: s = "RLRRLLRLRL"
Output: 4
Explanation: s can be split into "RL", "RRLL", "RL", "RL", each substring contains same number of 'L' and 'R'.
Example 2:

Input: s = "RLRRRLLRLL"
Output: 2
Explanation: s can be split into "RL", "RRRLLRLL", each substring contains same number of 'L' and 'R'.
Note that s cannot be split into "RL", "RR", "RL", "LR", "LL", because the 2nd and 5th substrings are not balanced.
Example 3:

Input: s = "LLLLRRRR"
Output: 1
Explanation: s can be split into "LLLLRRRR".
 

Constraints:

2 <= s.length <= 1000
s[i] is either 'L' or 'R'.
s is a balanced string.

```js
/**
 * @param {string} s
 * @return {number}
 */
var balancedStringSplit = function(s) {
    let balance = 0, matches = 0;

    for(let i = 0; i < s.length; i++){
      if (s[i] === "R") {
			balance -= 1;
		} else if (s[i] === "L") {
			balance += 1;
		}

		if (balance === 0) {
			matches += 1;
		}
    }
    return matches
};
```
The given JavaScript function, `balancedStringSplit`, takes a string `s` as input and aims to find the maximum number of balanced substrings within it. It initializes two variables, `balance` and `matches`, to keep track of the balance of 'R' and 'L' characters encountered in the string. It then iterates through each character in the string, decrementing `balance` for 'R' and incrementing it for 'L'. Whenever `balance` reaches zero, it means that a balanced substring is found, so `matches` is incremented. Finally, the function returns the matches count, representing the maximum number of balanced substrings in the input string `s`.