---
title: "Leetcode problem 44 - Jump Game"
header:
  image: /assets/leetcode.png
categories:
  - Leetcode
tags:
  - Leetcode
---

Given a sorted array of distinct integers and a target value, return the index if the target is found. If not, return the index where it would be if it were inserted in order.

You must write an algorithm with O(log n) runtime complexity.

Example 1:

Input: nums = [1,3,5,6], target = 5
Output: 2
Example 2:

Input: nums = [1,3,5,6], target = 2
Output: 1
Example 3:

Input: nums = [1,3,5,6], target = 7
Output: 4

```js
/**
 * @param {number[]} nums
 * @param {number} target
 * @return {number}
 */
var searchInsert = function (nums, target) {
  let left = 0;
  let right = nums.length - 1;

  while (left <= right) {
    const mid = Math.floor((left + right) / 2);

    if (nums[mid] === target) {
      return mid;
    } else if (nums[mid] < target) {
      left = mid + 1;
    } else {
      right = mid - 1;
    }
  }

  return left;
};
```

The function `searchInsert` takes a sorted array `nums` and a `target` value target as parameters and returns the index where the target value should be inserted or found.

Initialize `left` and `right` pointers at the beginning and end of the array, respectively.

Enter a `while` loop that continues as long as `left` is less than or equal to `right`.

Calculate the middle index `mid` using `Math.floor((left + right) / 2)`.

Compare the value at the middle index `nums[mid]` with the target value:

If they are equal, it means the target is found, so return `mid`.
If `nums[mid]` is less than the target, update `left` to `mid + 1` to search in the right half of the current range.
If `nums[mid]` is greater than the target, update `right` to `mid - 1` to search in the left half of the current range.
If the loop completes without finding the target, it means the target should be inserted into the array. Return the `left` pointer, which represents the insertion point.
