---
title: "Leetcode problem 38 - Maximum Number of Words Found in Sentences"
header:
  image: /assets/leetcode.png
categories:
  - Leetcode
tags:
  - Leetcode
---

A sentence is a list of words that are separated by a single space with no leading or trailing spaces.

You are given an array of strings sentences, where each sentences[i] represents a single sentence.

Return the maximum number of words that appear in a single sentence.

Example 1:

Input: sentences = ["alice and bob love leetcode", "i think so too", "this is great thanks very much"]
Output: 6
Explanation:

- The first sentence, "alice and bob love leetcode", has 5 words in total.
- The second sentence, "i think so too", has 4 words in total.
- The third sentence, "this is great thanks very much", has 6 words in total.
  Thus, the maximum number of words in a single sentence comes from the third sentence, which has 6 words.
  Example 2:

Input: sentences = ["please wait", "continue to fight", "continue to win"]
Output: 3
Explanation: It is possible that multiple sentences contain the same number of words.
In this example, the second and third sentences (underlined) have the same number of words.

```js
/**
 * @param {string[]} sentences
 * @return {number}
 */
var mostWordsFound = function (sentences) {
  let maxNum = 0;
  for (let i = 0; i < sentences.length; i++) {
    if (maxNum < sentences[i].split(" ").length) {
      maxNum = sentences[i].split(" ").length;
    }
  }
  return maxNum;
};
```

`let maxNum = 0;`: Initialize a variable `maxNum` to 0. This variable will store the maximum number of words found in any sentence.

`for (let i = 0; i < sentences.length; i++) {`: Start a loop that iterates over each sentence in the sentences array.

`if (maxNum < sentences[i].split(" ").length) {`: Check if the current sentence (after splitting it into words) has a greater number of words than the current maximum.

`maxNum = sentences[i].split(" ").length;`: If the current sentence has more words, update the `maxNum` variable with the new maximum.

`return maxNum;`: Return the final `maxNum`, which represents the maximum number of words found in any sentence.
