---
title: "Leetcode problem 52 -  Shuffle String"
header:
  image: /assets/leetcode.png
categories:
  - Leetcode
tags:
  - Leetcode
---

You are given a string s and an integer array indices of the same length. The string s will be shuffled such that the character at the ith position moves to indices[i] in the shuffled string.

Return the shuffled string.

Example 1:

Input: s = "codeleet", indices = [4,5,6,7,0,2,1,3]
Output: "leetcode"
Explanation: As shown, "codeleet" becomes "leetcode" after shuffling.
Example 2:

Input: s = "abc", indices = [0,1,2]
Output: "abc"
Explanation: After shuffling, each character remains in its position.

Constraints:

s.length == indices.length == n
1 <= n <= 100
s consists of only lowercase English letters.
0 <= indices[i] < n
All values of indices are unique.

```js
/**
 * @param {string} s
 * @param {number[]} indices
 * @return {string}
 */
var restoreString = function (s, indices) {
  let result = [];

  for (let i = 0; i < s.length; i++) {
    result[indices[i]] = s[i];
  }
  return result.join("");
};
```

The given JavaScript function `restoreString` takes two parameters: a string `s` and an array of numbers `indices.` It aims to reorder the characters of the input string `s` based on the corresponding indices provided in the `indices` array. The function initializes an empty array called `result` to store the reordered characters. It then iterates through the characters of the input string `s` using a for loop, and for each character at index `i,` it assigns that character to the `result` array at the index specified by the corresponding value in the `indices` array. Finally, it converts the `result` array back to a string using the `join` method and returns the reordered string. This function effectively reconstructs the original string based on the provided indices, thus achieving the desired string restoration.
