---
title: "Leetcode problem 61 - Count the Number of Consistent Strings"
header:
  image: /assets/leetcode.png
categories:
  - Leetcode
tags:
  - Leetcode
---

You are given a string allowed consisting of distinct characters and an array of strings words. A string is consistent if all characters in the string appear in the string allowed.

Return the number of consistent strings in the array words.

Example 1:

Input: allowed = "ab", words = ["ad","bd","aaab","baa","badab"]
Output: 2
Explanation: Strings "aaab" and "baa" are consistent since they only contain characters 'a' and 'b'.
Example 2:

Input: allowed = "abc", words = ["a","b","c","ab","ac","bc","abc"]
Output: 7
Explanation: All strings are consistent.
Example 3:

Input: allowed = "cad", words = ["cc","acd","b","ba","bac","bad","ac","d"]
Output: 4
Explanation: Strings "cc", "acd", "ac", and "d" are consistent.

```js
/**
 * @param {string} allowed
 * @param {string[]} words
 * @return {number}
 */
var countConsistentStrings = function (allowed, words) {
  // Set up a set to store the allowed characters
  let setAllowed = new Set(allowed);
  // Initialize a count variable to 0
  let count = 0;

  // Iterate through the words array
  for (let word of words) {
    // Set up a set to store the characters in the current word
    let setWord = new Set(word);

    // Iterate through the characters in the current word
    const iterator = setWord.values();

    // Check if the character is in the allowed set
    for (let el of iterator) {
      // If it is, remove it from the set
      if (setAllowed.has(el)) {
        // Remove the character from the set
        setWord.delete(el);
      }
    }
    // Check if the set is empty
    if (setWord.size === 0) {
      // If it is, increment the count
      count++;
    }
  }
  // Return the count
  return count;
};
```

Create a `Set` called `setAllowed` to store the characters allowed. This set is used to efficiently check if a character is allowed.

Initialize a `count` variable to 0. This variable will keep track of the count of consistent strings.

Iterate through the `words` array using a `for...of` loop. For each `word` in `words`, do the following:

a. Create a `Set` called `setWord` to store the characters in the current word. This set is used to efficiently check if a character in the word is not allowed.

b. Get an iterator for `setWord` using `setWord.values()`.

c. Iterate through the characters in `setWord` using a `for...of` loop. For each character `el` in `setWord`, do the following:

Check if `el` is in the `setAllowed` set. If it is, this character is allowed, so remove it from `setWord` using `setWord.delete(el)`.
d. After processing all characters in the `word`, check if `setWord.size` is equal to 0. If it is, this means that all characters in the word are allowed, so increment the `count` variable.

After iterating through all the words, return the `count` variable, which represents the count of consistent strings.
